# faust_practice
Faust -- Python Stream Processing Library

This library adapts ideas from Java-based Kafka Streams to Python for stream processing.
Kafka is the underlying message system of *Faust*.

Note:  [Faust](https://faust.readthedocs.io/en/latest/) has not beeen updated for more than 2 years now.
But, there is a fork called [faust-streaming](https://github.com/faust-streaming/faust) which is updated at least 4 months ago.

However, I would start practicing with the Faust native library because of its popularity.

The goal is to overcome the limitation that streaming libraries not as much popular with
Python unlike the machine learning and data mining libraries.
One of interesting articles regarding the same is available at [medium.com](https://medium.com/data-science/stream-processing-with-python-kafka-faust-a11740d0910c).

## Terminologies
- **Stream**: unbounded data that is accessible over the time.
- **Event**: details of some incident packed into a self containing object.
- **Producer**: one that produces the event, such as sensors or web logs.
- **Consumer**: one that consumes the events generated by the producer.
- **Message broker**: a mechanism where producers write their messages and accordingly it notifies the corresponding consumers to receive these messages.
- **Stream processing**: operate on the stream data to store it in database or visualize it.
- **Stream analytics**: aggregate the sequence of event stream data such as to count the number of events in last one minute or, some window time.
    - **Tumbling window**: non-overlapping window over the stream
    - **Hopping window**: overlapping window over the stream
- **Straggler events**: events that are yet to be be received for stream window processing.


